---
title: "Upgrade to v0.9.5"
content_type: upgrading
description: "This page describes how to upgrade the United Manufacturing Hub
to version 0.9.5"
---

This page describes how to upgrade the United Manufacturing Hub to version
0.9.5. Before upgrading, remember to backup the
[database](/docs/production-guide/backup_recovery/backup-timescale/),
[Node-RED flows](/docs/production-guide/backup_recovery/import-export-node-red/),
and your cluster configuration.

## Add Helm repo in {{% resource type="lens" name="name" %}}

Check if the UMH Helm repository is added in {{% resource type="lens" name="name" %}}.
To do so, from the top-left menu, select **FIle** > **Preferences** (or press `CTRL + ,`).
Click on the **Kubernetes** tab and check if the **Helm Chart** section contains
the `https://repo.umh.app` repository.

If it doesn't, click the **Add Custom Helm Repo** button and fill in the following
values:

- Helm repo name: {{% resource type="helm" name="repo" %}}
- URL: {{% resource type="helm" name="repo-url" %}}

Then click **Add**.

<!-- Add here any steps needed before deleting the deployments and statefulsets -->

## Alter ordertable constraint

In this version, one of the constraints of the `ordertable` table has been
modified.

{{% notice warning %}}
Make sure to [backup the database](/docs/production-guide/backup_recovery/backup-timescale/)
before exectuing the following steps.
{{% /notice %}}

### Open a shell in the database

{{< include "open-database-shell" >}}

### Alter the table

1. Check for possible conflicts in the `ordertable` table:

   ```sql
   SELECT order_name, asset_id, count(*) FROM ordertable GROUP BY order_name, asset_id HAVING count(*) > 1;
   ```

   If the result is empty, you can skip the next step.

2. Delete the duplicates:

   ```sql
   DELETE FROM ordertable ox USING (
        SELECT MIN(CTID) as ctid, order_name, asset_id
        FROM ordertable
        GROUP BY order_name, asset_id HAVING count(*) > 1
        ) b
   WHERE ox.order_name = b.order_name AND ox.asset_id = b.asset_id
   AND ox.CTID <> b.ctid;
   ```

   If the data cannot be deleted, you have to manually update each duplicate
   `order_names` to a unique value.

3. Get the name of the constraint:

   ```sql
   SELECT conname FROM pg_constraint WHERE conrelid = 'ordertable'::regclass AND contype = 'u';
   ```

4. Drop the constraint:

   ```sql
   ALTER TABLE ordertable DROP CONSTRAINT ordertable_asset_id_order_id_key;
   ```

5. Add the new constraint:

   ```sql
   ALTER TABLE ordertable ADD CONSTRAINT ordertable_asset_id_order_name_key UNIQUE (asset_id, order_name);
   ```

Now you can close the shell by typing `exit` and continue with the upgrade process.

## Clear Workloads

Some workloads need to be deleted before upgrading. This process _do not_ delete
any data. If a workload is missing, it means that it was not enabled in your
cluster, therefore you can skip it.

To delete a resource, you can select it using the box on the left of the
resource name and click the **-** button on the bottom right corner.

1. Open the **Workloads** tab.
2. From the **Deployment** section, delete the following deployments:
   - {{% resource type="deployment" name="barcodereader" %}}
   - {{% resource type="deployment" name="factoryinsight" %}}
   - {{% resource type="deployment" name="kafkatopostgresql" %}}
   - {{% resource type="deployment" name="mqttkafkabridge" %}}
   - {{% resource type="deployment" name="mqttsimulator" %}}
   - {{% resource type="deployment" name="opcuasimulator" %}}
3. From the **StatefulSet** section, delete the following statefulsets:
   - {{% resource type="statefulset" name="mqttbridge" %}}
   - {{% resource type="statefulset" name="mqttbroker" %}}
   - {{% resource type="statefulset" name="nodered" %}}
   - {{% resource type="statefulset" name="sensorconnect" %}}

<!-- Add here any steps needed before upgrading the Helm Chart -->

## Upgrade Helm Chart

Now everything is ready to upgrade the Helm chart.

1. Navigate to the **Helm** > **Releases** tab.
2. Select the {{% resource type="helm" name="release" %}} release and click
   **Upgrade**.
3. In the **Helm Upgrade** window, make sure that the `Upgrade version` field
   contains the version you want to upgrade to.
4. You can also change the values of the Helm chart, if needed.

   - Enable the startup probe for the Kafka Broker by adding the following into
     the `kafka` section:

     ```yaml
     startupProbe:
       enabled: true
       failureThreshold: 600
       periodSeconds: 10
       timeoutSeconds: 10
     ```

5. Click **Upgrade**.

The upgrade process can take a few minutes. The upgrade is complete when the
**Status** field of the release is Deployed.

<!-- Add here any steps needed after upgrading the Helm Chart -->

## Changes to the messages

Some messages have been modified in this version. You need to update some payolads
in your Node-RED flows.

- [`modifyState`](/docs/architecture/datamodel/messages/modifystate/):
  - `start_time_stamp` has been renamed to `timestamp_ms`
  - `end_time_stamp` has been renamed to `timestamp_ms_end`
- [`modifyProducedPieces`](/docs/architecture/datamodel/messages/modifyproducedpieces/):
  - `start_time_stamp` has been renamed to `timestamp_ms`
  - `end_time_stamp` has been renamed to `timestamp_ms_end`
- `deleteShiftByAssetIdAndBeginTimestamp` and `deleteShiftById` have been removed.
  Use the [`deleteShift`](/docs/architecture/datamodel/messages/deleteshift/)
  message instead.
