---
title: "What's New in Version 0.2"
content_type: whatsnew
description: |
    This section contains information about the new features and changes in the
    United Manufacturing Hub introduced in version 0.2.
weight: -2 # increase the absolute value to move the latest release to the top
toc_hide: false # set to true after the third release, to not clutter the sidebar
---

<!-- overview -->

Welcome to United Manufacturing Hub version 0.2!
<!-- insert a one-liner about the release here -->
It this release we have some exiting changes to the Management Console!

<!-- body -->
<!-- list all the patches in h2, with a list of changes -->

<!-- 
## 0.2.0

### Data Infrastructure

- cool features
- fixed bugs

### Management Console

- fixed bugs
- another cool feature

### Benthos-UMH

- another cool feature
- fixed bugs
-->

## 0.2.0

### Management Console

- The Data Connections and Data Sources administration has been revised, and now
  it's all in one place called Connection Management. This new concept revolves
  around the idea of a connection, which is just a link between your UMH instance
  and a data source. You can then configure the connection to fetch data from the
  source, and monitor its status. Additionally, you can now edit existing connections
  and data source configurations, and delete them if you don't need them anymore.

## 0.2.2

### Management Console

- The updating functionality has been temporarily disabled, as it gives errors
  even when the update is successful. We are working on a fix for this issue and
  will re-enable the functionality as soon as possible.

## 0.2.3

Centralized all initial installation and continuous updating processes (Docker, k3s, helm, flatcar, …) to interact solely with [management.umh.app](http://management.umh.app/). This ensures that only one domain is necessary to be allowed in the firewall for these activities.

### Data Infrastructure

- Upgraded the Helm Chart to version 0.10.6, which includes:
  - Transitioned Docker URLs to our internal registry from a single domain (see above)
  - Removed obsolete services: factoryinput, grafanaproxy, custom microservice tester, kafka-state-detector, mqtt-bridge. This change is also reflected in our documentation.
  - Resolved an issue where restarting kafka-to-postgres was necessary when adding a new topic.

### Device & Container Infrastructure

- Modified flatcar provisioning and the installation script to retrieve all necessary binaries from a single domain (see above)

### Management Console

- Addressed a bug that prevented the workspace tab from functioning correctly in the absence of configured connections.
