---
title: "What's New in Version 0.9.12"
content_type: whatsnew
description: |
    This section contains information about the new features and changes in the
    United Manufacturing Hub introduced in version 0.9.12.
weight: -3
---

<!-- overview -->

Welcome to United Manufacturing Hub version 0.9.12! Read on to learn about
the new features of the UMH Datasource V2 plugin for Grafana, Redis running
in standalone mode, and more.

For a complete list of changes, refer to the
[release notes](https://github.com/united-manufacturing-hub/united-manufacturing-hub/releases/tag/v0.9.12/).

<!-- body -->

## Grafana

### New Grafana version

Grafana has been upgraded to version 9.4.3. This introduces new search and
navigation features, a redesigned details section of the logs, and a new
data source connection page.

Head over to the [Grafana release notes](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v9-4/)
to learn more about the new features.

### UMH Datasource V2 plugin

_TODO by @Scarjit_

## Redis in standalone mode

Redis, the service used for caching, is now deployed in standalone mode. This
change introduces these benefits:

- Simplicity: Running Redis in standalone mode is simpler than using a
  master-replica topology with Sentinel. With standalone mode, there is only one
  Redis instance to manage, whereas with master-replica, you need to manage
  multiple Redis instances and the Sentinel process. This simplicity can reduce
  complexity and make it easier to manage Redis instances.
- Lower Overhead: Standalone mode has lower overhead than using a master-replica
  topology with Sentinel. In a master-replica topology, there is a communication
  overhead between the master and the replicas, and Sentinel adds additional
  overhead for monitoring and failover management. In contrast, standalone mode
  does not have this overhead.
- Better Performance: Since standalone mode does not have the overhead of
  master-replica topology with Sentinel, it can provide better performance.
  Standalone mode provides faster response times and can handle more requests
  per second than a master-replica topology with Sentinel.

That being said, it's important to note that a master-replica topology with
Sentinel provides higher availability and failover capabilities than standalone
mode.

## All basic services are now exposed by a LoadBalancer Service

The MQTT Broker, Kafka Broker, and Kafka Console are now exposed by a
LoadBalancer Service, along with the Database, Grafana and Node-RED. This
change makes it easier to access these services from outside the cluster, as
they are now accessible via the IP address of the cluster.

When installing the United Manufacturing Hub locally, the cluster ports are
automatically mapped to the host ports. This means that you can access the
services from your browser by using `localhost` and the port number.

Read more about connecting to the services from outside the cluster in the
[related documentation](/docs/production-guide/administration/access-services-from-outside-cluster/).

## Deprecations

### Cameraconnect

The Cameraconnect microservice has been deprecated and removed from the
United Manufacturing Hub. It's development has been taken over by [Anticipate](https://www.anticipate.ml/).

### Blob storage

The blob storage service has been deprecated and removed from the United
Manufacturing Hub. This includes the MinIO Operator and Tenant, and the MQTT to
Blob microservice.

## Fixes

Many fixes have been made to the United Manufacturing Hub, including known
issues for Sensorconnect and MQTT Bridge.
