---
title: "What's New in Version 0.9.14"
content_type: whatsnew
description: |
    This section contains information about the new features and changes in the
    United Manufacturing Hub introduced in version 0.9.14.
weight: -14
---

<!-- overview -->

Welcome to United Manufacturing Hub version 0.9.14! In this release we changed
the Kafka broker from Apache Kafka to RedPanda, which is a Kafka-compatible
event streaming platform. We also started migrating to a different kafka
library in our micoservices, which will allow full ARM support in the future.
Finally, we tweaked the overall resource usage of the United Manufacturing Hub
to improve performance and efficiency, along with some bug fixes.
<!-- insert a one-liner about the release here -->

For a complete list of changes, refer to the
[release notes](https://github.com/united-manufacturing-hub/united-manufacturing-hub/releases/tag/v0.9.14/).

<!-- body -->

## RedPanda

[RedPanda](https://redpanda.com/) is a Kafka-compatible event streaming
platform. It is built with modern hardware in mind and utilizes multi-core CPUs
efficiently, which can result in better performance compared to Kafka. RedPanda
also offers lower latency and higher throughput, making it a better fit for
real-time use cases in IIoT applications. Additionally, RedPanda has a simpler
setup and management process compared to Kafka, which can save time and
resources for development teams. Finally, RedPanda is fully compatible with
Kafka's API, allowing for a seamless transition for existing Kafka users.

Overall, Redpanda can provide improved performance and efficiency for IIoT
applications that require real-time data processing and management with a lower
setup and management cost.

## Sarama Kafka Library

We started migrating our microservices to use the
[Sarama](https://github.com/Shopify/sarama) Kafka library. This library is
written in Go and is fully compatible with RedPanda. This change will allow us
to support ARM-based devices in the future, which will be useful for edge
computing use cases. Addedd bonus is that Sarama is faster and requires less
memory than the previous library.

For now we only migrated the following microservices:

- barcodereader
- kafka-init (used as an init container for components that communicate with
  Kafka)
- mqtt-kafka-bridge

## Resources tweaking

With this release we tweaked the resource requests of each default component
of the United Manufacturing Hub to respect the minimum requirements of 4 cores
and 8GB of RAM. This allowed us to increase the memory allocated for the MQTT
broker, resulting in solving the common Out Of Memory issue that caused the
broker to restart.

Be sure to follow the [upgrade guide](/docs/production-guide/upgrading/0.9.14/)
to adjust your resources accordingly.

The following table shows the new resource requests and limits when deploying
the United Manufacturing Hub with the default configuration or with all the
components enabled. CPU values are expressed in millicores and memory values
are expressed in mebibytes.

{{< table caption="resources" >}}
| Resource                | Requests     | Limits       |
| ----------------------- | ------------ | ------------ |
| CPU (default values)    | 1080m (27%)  | 1890m (47%)  |
| Memory (default values) | 1650Mi (21%) | 2770Mi (35%) |
| CPU (all components)    | 2002m (50%)  | 2730m (68%)  |
| Memory (all components) | 2873Mi (36%) | 3578Mi (45%) |
{{< /table >}}

The requested resources are the ones immediately allocated to the container
when it starts, and the limits are the maximum amount of resources that the
container can (but is not forced to) use. For more information about Kubernetes
resources, refer to the
[official documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/).

## Container registry

We moved our container registry from Docker Hub to GitHub Container Registry.
This change won't affect the way you deploy the United Manufacturing Hub, but
it will allow us to better manage our container images and provide a better
experience for our developers. For the time being, we will continue to publish
our images to Docker Hub, but we will eventually deprecate the old registry.

## Others

- Implemented a new test build to detect race conditions in the codebase. This
  will help us to improve the stability of the United Manufacturing Hub.
- All our custom images now run as non-root by default, except for the ones that
  require root privileges.
- The custom microservices now allow to change the type of Service used to
  expose them by setting `serviceType` field.
- Added an SQL trigger function that deletes duplicate records from the
  `statetable` table after insertion.
- Enhanced the environment variables validation in the codebase.
- Added possibility to set the aggregation interval when calculating the
  throughput of an asset.
- Various dependencies has been updated to their latest version.
